<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XVIII: A Confession</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-18" epub:type="chapter">
			<header>
				<hgroup>
					<h2 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">XVIII</h2>
					<p epub:type="title">A Confession</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p epub:type="se:bridgehead">(Wednesday, June 19; 1¬Ý<abbr>p.m.</abbr>)</p>
			</header>
			<p>When we were again outside Markham asked:</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHow in Heaven‚Äôs name did you know she had put up her jewels to help Pfyfe?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMy charmin‚Äô metaphysical deductions, don‚Äôt y‚Äô know,‚Äù answered Vance. ‚ÄúAs I told you, Benson was not the openhanded, bighearted altruist who would have lent money without security; and certainly the impecunious Pfyfe had no collateral worth ten thousand dollars, or he wouldn‚Äôt have forged the check. Ergo: someone lent him the security. Now, who would be so trustin‚Äô as to lend Pfyfe that amount of security except a sentimental woman who was blind to his amazin‚Äô defects? Y‚Äô know, I was just evil-minded enough to suspect there was a Calypso in the life of this Ulysses when he told us of stopping over in New York to murmur ‚Äòau revoir‚Äô to someone. When a man like Pfyfe fails to specify the sex of a person, it is safe to assume the feminine gender. So I suggested that you send a Paul Pry to Port Washington to peer into his trans-matrimonial activities: I felt certain a <i xml:lang="fr">bonne amie</i> would be found. Then, when the mysterious package, which obviously was the security, seemed to identify itself as the box of jewels seen by the inquisitive housekeeper, I said to myself: ‚ÄòAh! Leander‚Äôs misguided Dulcinea has lent him her gewgaws to save him from the yawning dungeon.‚Äô Nor did I overlook the fact that he had been shielding someone in his explanation about the check. Therefore, as soon as the lady‚Äôs name and address were learned by Tracy, I made the appointment for you.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
			<p>We were passing the Gothic-Renaissance Schwab residence which extends from West End Avenue to Riverside Drive at Seventy-third Street; and Vance stopped for a moment to contemplate it.</p>
			<p>Markham waited patiently. At length Vance walked on.</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ä¶¬ÝY‚Äô know, the moment I saw <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝBanning I knew my conclusions were correct. She was a sentimental soul, and just the sort of professional good sport who would have handed over her jewels to her <i xml:lang="it">amoroso</i>. Also, she was bereft of gems when we called‚ÅÝ‚Äîand a woman of her stamp always wears her jewels when she desires to make an impression on strangers. Moreover, she‚Äôs the kind that would have jewellery even if the larder was empty. It was therefore merely a question of getting her to talk.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOn the whole, you did very well,‚Äù observed Markham.</p>
			<p>Vance gave him a condescending bow.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSir Hubert is too generous.‚ÅÝ‚ÄîBut tell me, didn‚Äôt my little chat with the lady cast a gleam into your darkened mind?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNaturally,‚Äù said Markham. ‚ÄúI‚Äôm not utterly obtuse. She played unconsciously into our hands. She believed Pfyfe did not arrive in New York until the morning after the murder, and therefore told us quite frankly that she had phoned him that Benson had the jewels at home. The situation now is: Pfyfe knew they were in Benson‚Äôs house, and was there himself at about the time the shot was fired. Furthermore, the jewels are gone; and Pfyfe tried to cover up his tracks that night.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Vance sighed hopelessly.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMarkham, there are altogether too many trees for you in this case. You simply can‚Äôt see the forest, y‚Äô know, because of ‚Äôem.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThere is the remote possibility that you are so busily engaged in looking at one particular tree that you are unaware of the others.‚Äù</p>
			<p>A shadow passed over Vance‚Äôs face.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI wish you were right,‚Äù he said.</p>
			<p>It was nearly half past one, and we dropped into the Fountain Room of the Ansonia Hotel for lunch. Markham was preoccupied throughout the meal, and when we entered the subway later, he looked uneasily at his watch.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI think I‚Äôll go on down to Wall Street and call on the Major a moment before returning to the office. I can‚Äôt understand his asking Miss Hoffman not to mention the package to me.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ It might not have contained the jewels, after all.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDo you imagine for one moment,‚Äù rejoined Vance, ‚Äúthat Alvin told the Major the truth about the package? It was not a very cred‚Äôtable transaction, y‚Äô know; and the Major most likely would have given him what-for.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Major Benson‚Äôs explanation bore out Vance‚Äôs surmise. Markham, in telling him of the interview with Paula Banning, emphasized the jewel episode in the hope that the Major would voluntarily mention the package; for his promise to Miss Hoffman prevented him from admitting that he was aware of the other‚Äôs knowledge concerning it.</p>
			<p>The Major listened with considerable astonishment, his eyes gradually growing angry.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôm afraid Alvin deceived me,‚Äù he said. He looked straight ahead for a moment, his face softening. ‚ÄúAnd I don‚Äôt like to think it, now that he‚Äôs gone. But the truth is, when Miss Hoffman told me this morning about the envelope, she also mentioned a small parcel that had been in Alvin‚Äôs private safe-drawer; and I asked her to omit any reference to it from her story to you. I knew the parcel contained <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝBanning‚Äôs jewels, but I thought the fact would only confuse matters if brought to your attention. You see, Alvin told me that a judgment had been taken against <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝBanning, and that, just before the Supplementary Proceedings, Pfyfe had brought her jewels here and asked him to sequester them temporarily in his safe.‚Äù</p>
			<p>On our way back to the Criminal Courts Building Markham took Vance‚Äôs arm and smiled.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYour guessing luck is holding out, I see.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúRather!‚Äù agreed Vance. ‚ÄúIt would appear that the late Alvin, like Warren Hastings, resolved to die in the last dyke of prevarication.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ Splendide mendax, what?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIn any event,‚Äù replied Markham, ‚Äúthe Major has unconsciously added another link in the chain against Pfyfe.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou seem to be making a collection of chains,‚Äù commented Vance drily. ‚ÄúWhat have you done with the ones you forged about Miss <abbr>St.</abbr>¬ÝClair and Leacock?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI haven‚Äôt entirely discarded them‚ÅÝ‚Äîif that‚Äôs what you think,‚Äù asserted Markham gravely.</p>
			<p>When we reached the office Sergeant Heath was awaiting us with a beatific grin.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt‚Äôs all over, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝMarkham,‚Äù he announced. ‚ÄúThis noon, after you‚Äôd gone, Leacock came here looking for you. When he found you were out, he phoned Headquarters, and they connected him with me. He wanted to see me‚ÅÝ‚Äîvery important, he said; so I hurried over. He was sitting in the waiting-room when I came in, and he called me over and said: ‚ÄòI came to give myself up. I killed Benson.‚Äô I got him to dictate a confession to Swacker, and then he signed it.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ Here it is.‚Äù He handed Markham a typewritten sheet of paper.</p>
			<p>Markham sank wearily into a chair. The strain of the past few days had begun to tell on him. He sighed heavily.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThank God! Now our troubles are ended.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Vance looked at him lugubriously, and shook his head.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI rather fancy, y‚Äô know, that your troubles are only beginning,‚Äù he drawled.</p>
			<p>When Markham had glanced through the confession he handed it to Vance, who read it carefully with an expression of growing amusement.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúY‚Äô know,‚Äù he said, ‚Äúthis document isn‚Äôt at all legal. Any judge worthy the name would throw it precip‚Äôtately out of court. It‚Äôs far too simple and precise. It doesn‚Äôt begin with ‚Äògreetings‚Äô; it doesn‚Äôt contain a single ‚Äòwherefore-be-it‚Äô or ‚Äòbe-it-known‚Äô or ‚Äòdo-hereby‚Äô; it says nothing about ‚Äòfree will‚Äô or ‚Äòsound mind‚Äô or ‚Äòdisposin‚Äô mem‚Äôry‚Äô; and the Captain doesn‚Äôt once refer to himself as ‚Äòthe party of the first part.‚Äô‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ Utterly worthless, Sergeant. If I were you, I‚Äôd chuck it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Heath was feeling too complacently triumphant to be annoyed. He smiled with magnanimous tolerance.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt strikes you as funny, doesn‚Äôt it, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝVance?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSergeant, if you knew how inord‚Äônately funny this confession is, you‚Äôd pos‚Äôtively have hysterics.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Vance then turned to Markham.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúReally, y‚Äô know, I shouldn‚Äôt put too much stock in this. It may, however, prove a valuable lever with which to prise open the truth. In fact, I‚Äôm jolly glad the Captain has gone in for imag‚Äônative lit‚Äôrature. With this entrancin‚Äô fable in our possession, I think we can overcome the Major‚Äôs scruples, and get him to tell us what he knows. Maybe I‚Äôm wrong, but it‚Äôs worth trying.‚Äù</p>
			<p>He stepped to the District Attorney‚Äôs desk, and leaned over it cajolingly.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI haven‚Äôt led you astray yet, old dear; and I‚Äôm going to make another suggestion. Call up the Major and ask him to come here at once. Tell him you‚Äôve secured a confession‚ÅÝ‚Äîbut don‚Äôt you dare say whose. Imply it‚Äôs Miss <abbr>St.</abbr>¬ÝClair‚Äôs, or Pfyfe‚Äôs‚ÅÝ‚Äîor Pontius Pilate‚Äôs. But urge his immediate presence. Tell him you want to discuss it with him before proceeding with the indictment.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI can‚Äôt see the necessity of doing that,‚Äù objected Markham. ‚ÄúI‚Äôm pretty sure to see him at the Club tonight, and I can tell him then.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat wouldn‚Äôt do at all,‚Äù insisted Vance. ‚ÄúIf the Major can enlighten us on any point, I think Sergeant Heath should be present to hear him.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI don‚Äôt need any enlightenment,‚Äù cut in Heath.</p>
			<p>Vance regarded him with admiring surprise.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat a wonderful man! Even Goethe cried for <i xml:lang="de">mehr Licht</i>; and here are you in a state of luminous saturation!‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ Astonishin‚Äô!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSee here, Vance,‚Äù said Markham: ‚Äúwhy try to complicate the matter? It strikes me as a waste of time, besides being an imposition, to ask the Major here to discuss Leacock‚Äôs confession. We don‚Äôt need his evidence now, anyway.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Despite his gruffness there was a hint of reconsideration in his voice; for though his instinct had been to dismiss the request out of hand, the experiences of the past few days had taught him that Vance‚Äôs suggestions were not made without an object.</p>
			<p>Vance, sensing the other‚Äôs hesitancy, said:</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMy request is based on something more than an idle desire to gaze upon the Major‚Äôs rubicund features at this moment. I‚Äôm telling you, with all the meagre earnestness I possess, that his presence here now would be most helpful.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Markham deliberated, and argued the point at some length. But Vance was so persistent that in the end he was convinced of the advisability of complying.</p>
			<p>Heath was patently disgusted, but he sat down quietly, and sought solace in a cigar.</p>
			<p>Major Benson arrived with astonishing promptness, and when Markham handed him the confession, he made little attempt to conceal his eagerness. But as he read it his face clouded, and a look of puzzlement came into his eyes.</p>
			<p>At length he looked up, frowning.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI don‚Äôt quite understand this; and I‚Äôll admit I‚Äôm greatly surprised. It doesn‚Äôt seem credible that Leacock shot Alvin.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ And yet, I may be mistaken, of course.‚Äù</p>
			<p>He laid the confession on Markham‚Äôs desk with an air of disappointment, and sank into a chair.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDo <em>you</em> feel satisfied?‚Äù he asked.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI don‚Äôt see any way around it,‚Äù said Markham. ‚ÄúIf he isn‚Äôt guilty, why should he come forward and confess? God knows, there‚Äôs plenty of evidence against him. I was ready to arrest him two days ago.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHe‚Äôs guilty all right,‚Äù put in Heath. ‚ÄúI‚Äôve had my eye on him from the first.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Major Benson did not reply at once: he seemed to be framing his next words.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt might be‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat is, there‚Äôs the bare possibility‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat Leacock had an ulterior motive in confessing.‚Äù</p>
			<p>We all, I think, recognized the thought which his words strove to conceal.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôll admit,‚Äù acceded Markham, ‚Äúthat at first I believed Miss <abbr>St.</abbr>¬ÝClair guilty, and I intimated as much to Leacock. But later I was persuaded that she was not directly involved.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDoes Leacock know this?‚Äù the Major asked quickly.</p>
			<p>Markham thought a moment.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo, I can‚Äôt say that he does. In fact, it‚Äôs more than likely he still thinks I suspect her.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAh!‚Äù The Major‚Äôs exclamation was almost involuntary.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBut what‚Äôs that got to do with it?‚Äù asked Heath irritably. ‚ÄúDo you think he‚Äôs going to the chair to save her reputation?‚ÅÝ‚ÄîBunk! That sort of thing‚Äôs all right in the movies, but no man‚Äôs that crazy in real life.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôm not so sure, Sergeant,‚Äù ventured Vance lazily. ‚ÄúWomen are too sane and practical to make such foolish gestures; but men, y‚Äô know, have an illim‚Äôtable capacity for idiocy.‚Äù</p>
			<p>He turned an inquiring gaze on Major Benson.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWon‚Äôt you tell us why you think Leacock is playing Sir Galahad?‚Äù</p>
			<p>But the Major took refuge in generalities, and was disinclined even to follow up his original intimation as to the cause of the Captain‚Äôs action. Vance questioned him for some time, but was unable to penetrate his reticence.</p>
			<p>Heath, becoming restless, finally spoke up.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou can‚Äôt argue Leacock‚Äôs guilt away, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝVance. Look at the facts. He threatened Benson that he‚Äôd kill him if he caught him with the girl again. The next time Benson goes out with her, he‚Äôs found shot. Then Leacock hides his gun at her house, and when things begin to get hot, he takes it away and ditches it in the river. He bribes the hall-boy to alibi him; and he‚Äôs seen at Benson‚Äôs house at twelve-thirty that night. When he‚Äôs questioned he can‚Äôt explain anything.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ If that ain‚Äôt an open-and-shut case, I‚Äôm a mock-turtle.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThe circumstances are convincing,‚Äù admitted Major Benson. ‚ÄúBut couldn‚Äôt they be accounted for on other grounds?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Heath did not deign to answer the question.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThe way I see it,‚Äù he continued, ‚Äúis like this: Leacock gets suspicious along about midnight, takes his gun and goes out. He catches Benson with the girl, goes in, and shoots him like he threatened. They‚Äôre both mixed up in it, if you ask me; but Leacock did the shooting. And now we got his confession.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ There isn‚Äôt a jury in the country that wouldn‚Äôt convict him.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚Äú<i xml:lang="la">Probi et legales homines</i>‚ÅÝ‚Äîoh, quite!‚Äù murmured Vance.</p>
			<p>Swacker appeared at the door.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThe reporters are clamoring for attention,‚Äù he announced with a wry face.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDo they know about the confession?‚Äù Markham asked Heath.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNot yet. I haven‚Äôt told ‚Äôem anything so far‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat‚Äôs why they‚Äôre clamoring, I guess. But I‚Äôll give ‚Äôem an earful now, if you say the word.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Markham nodded, and Heath started for the door. But Vance quickly planted himself in the way.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúCould you keep this thing quiet till tomorrow, Markham?‚Äù he asked.</p>
			<p>Markham was annoyed.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI could if I wanted to‚ÅÝ‚Äîyes. But why should I?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúFor your own sake, if for no other reason. You‚Äôve got your prize safely locked up. Control your vanity for twenty-four hours. The Major and I both know that Leacock‚Äôs innocent, and by this time tomorrow the whole country‚Äôll know it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Again an argument ensued; but the outcome, like that of the former argument, was a foregone conclusion. Markham had realized for some time that Vance had reason to be convinced of something which as yet he was unwilling to divulge. His opposition to Vance‚Äôs requests were, I had suspected, largely the result of an effort to ascertain this information; and I was positive of it now as he leaned forward and gravely debated the advisability of making public the Captain‚Äôs confession.</p>
			<p>Vance, as heretofore, was careful to reveal nothing; but in the end his sheer determination carried his point; and Markham requested Heath to keep his own counsel until the next day. The Major, by a slight nod, indicated his approbation of the decision.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou might tell the newspaper lads, though,‚Äù suggested Vance, ‚Äúthat you‚Äôll have a rippin‚Äô sensation for ‚Äôem tomorrow.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Heath went out, crestfallen and glowering.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúA rash fella, the Sergeant‚ÅÝ‚Äîso impetuous!‚Äù</p>
			<p>Vance again picked up the confession, and perused it.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNow, Markham, I want you to bring your prisoner forth‚ÅÝ‚Äîhabeas corpus and that sort of thing. Put him in that chair facing the window, give him one of the good cigars you keep for influential politicians, and then listen attentively while I politely chat with him.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ The Major, I trust, will remain for the interlocut‚Äôry proceedings.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat request, at least, I‚Äôll grant without objections,‚Äù smiled Markham. ‚ÄúI had already decided to have a talk with Leacock.‚Äù</p>
			<p>He pressed a buzzer, and a brisk, ruddy-faced clerk entered.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúA requisition for Captain Philip Leacock,‚Äù he ordered.</p>
			<p>When it was brought to him he initialed it.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúTake it to Ben, and tell him to hurry.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The clerk disappeared through the door leading to the outer corridor.</p>
			<p>Ten minutes later a deputy sheriff from the Tombs entered with the prisoner.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
