<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Characters of the Book</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="frontmatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="characters" epub:type="z3998:dramatis-personae">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Characters of the Book</h2>
			<dl>
				<dt>Philo Vance</dt>
				<dt>John <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">F.-X.</abbr> Markham</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>District Attorney of New York County.</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Alvin <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">H.</abbr> Benson</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>Well-known Wall Street broker and man-about-town, who was mysteriously murdered in his home.</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Major Anthony Benson</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>Brother of the murdered man.</p>
				</dd>
				<dt><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Anna Platz</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>Housekeeper for Alvin Benson.</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Muriel <abbr>St.</abbr> Clair</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>A young singer.</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Captain Philip Leacock</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>Miss <abbr>St.</abbr> Clair’s fiancé.</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Leander Pfyfe</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>Intimate friend of Alvin Benson’s.</p>
				</dd>
				<dt><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Paula Banning</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>A friend of Leander Pfyfe’s.</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Elsie Hoffman</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>Secretary of the firm of Benson and Benson.</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Colonel Bigsby Ostrander</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>A retired army officer.</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>William <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">H.</abbr> Moriarty</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>An alderman, Borough of the Bronx.</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Jack Prisco</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>Elevator-boy at the Chatham Arms.</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>George <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">G.</abbr> Stitt</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>Of the firm of Stitt and McCoy, Public Accountants.</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Maurice Dinwiddie</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>Assistant District Attorney.</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Chief Inspector O’Brien</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>Of the Police Department of New York City.</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>William <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">M.</abbr> Moran</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>Commanding Officer of the Detective Bureau.</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Ernest Heath</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>Sergeant of the Homicide Bureau.</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Burke</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>Detective of the Homicide Bureau.</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Snitkin</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>Detective of the Homicide Bureau.</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Emery</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>Detective of the Homicide Bureau.</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Ben Hanlon</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>Commanding Officer of Detectives assigned to District Attorney’s office.</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Phelps</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>Detective assigned to District Attorney’s office.</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Tracy</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>Detective assigned to District Attorney’s office.</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Springer</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>Detective assigned to District Attorney’s office.</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Higginbotham</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>Detective assigned to District Attorney’s office.</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Captain Carl Hagedorn</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>Fire-arms expert.</p>
				</dd>
				<dt><abbr>Dr.</abbr> Doremus</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>Medical Examiner.</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Francis Swacker</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>Secretary to the District Attorney.</p>
				</dd>
				<dt>Currie</dt>
				<dd>
					<p>Vance’s valet.</p>
				</dd>
			</dl>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
