<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Characters of the Book</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="frontmatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="dramatis-personae" epub:type="z3998:dramatis-personae">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Characters of the Book</h2>
			<ul>
				<li>
					<p>Philo Vance.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>John <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">F.-X.</abbr> Markham. District Attorney of New York County</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Alvin <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">H.</abbr> Benson. Well-known Wall Street broker and man-about-town, who was mysteriously murdered in his home</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Major Anthony Benson. Brother of the murdered man</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Anna Platz. Housekeeper for Alvin Benson</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Muriel <abbr>St.</abbr> Clair. A young singer</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Captain Philip Leacock. Miss <abbr>St.</abbr> Clair’s fiancé</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Leander Pfyfe. Intimate friend of Alvin Benson’s</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Paula Banning. A friend of Leander Pfyfe’s</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Elsie Hoffman. Secretary of the firm of Benson and Benson</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Colonel Bigsby Ostrander. A retired army officer</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>William <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">H.</abbr> Moriarty. An alderman, Borough of the Bronx</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Jack Prisco. Elevator-boy at the Chatham Arms</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>George <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">G.</abbr> Stitt. Of the firm of Stitt and McCoy, Public Accountants</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Maurice Dinwiddie. Assistant District Attorney</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Chief Inspector O’Brien. Of the Police Department of New York City</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>William <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">M.</abbr> Moran. Commanding Officer of the Detective Bureau</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Ernest Heath. Sergeant of the Homicide Bureau</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Burke. Detective of the Homicide Bureau</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Snitkin. Detective of the Homicide Bureau</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Emery. Detective of the Homicide Bureau</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Ben Hanlon. Commanding Officer of Detectives assigned to District Attorney’s office</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Phelps. Detective assigned to District Attorney’s office</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Tracy. Detective assigned to District Attorney’s office</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Springer. Detective assigned to District Attorney’s office</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Higginbotham. Detective assigned to District Attorney’s office</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Captain Carl Hagedorn. Firearms expert</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p><abbr>Dr.</abbr> Doremus. Medical Examiner</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Francis Swacker. Secretary to the District Attorney</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Currie. Vance’s valet</p>
				</li>
			</ul>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
